---
title: Project Setup
description: How to setup the project locally.
navigation:
  icon: i-lucide-download
---

## Clone Repo

To get started clone the repo onto your system:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Pico-Router/Pico-Router.git
```

## Dev Container

For an easier introduction to the project it is heavily encouraged to use the pre-made Dev Container as it includes all the necessary depencies and toolchains.

::note
Make sure that alongside Docker Desktop you have at least **8GB of free disk space** on your system to comfortably build and run the container.
::

Build the Dev Container image from project root using:

```bash
docker buildx build --platform linux/amd64 --load -t pico-router-dev:latest -f .devcontainer/Dockerfile .
```

To open the project in the Dev Container on VS Code you'll need Microsoft's *Dev Containers* extension. After that's installed run `Dev Containers: Reopen in Container` in the command pallet ( <UKbd>Ctrl</UKbd> <UKbd>⇧</UKbd> <UKbd>P</UKbd> ) to reopen the project in the container.

## Manual Setup

In case you decide to work with Pico Router without the Dev Container make sure you have at least the following dependencies installed:
* CMake 3.13+
* A C++17-capable compiler
* The Raspberry Pi Pico SDK available through `PICO_SDK_PATH`
* The `arm-none-eabi` toolchain for Pico builds
* Python 3 for custom tooling

## Firmware Builds

To build the Pico Router firmware from source you have two options. You can either build the firmware for the Raspberry Pi Pico 2 hardware target or you can build the binary for your host system for testing. To distinguish between the two build targets the CMake `-DBUILD_PICO=ON` build flag is used.

::code-group
```bash [Pico Target]
cmake -S . -B build-pico -DBUILD_PICO=ON
cmake --build build-pico
```

```bash [Host Target]
cmake -S . -B build-host # BUILD_PICO is OFF by default
cmake --build build-host
```
::

## Running Unit Tests

Pico Router uses GTest as its main testing framework.

::warning
TODO: add basic unit test explainer
::
